---
layout: post
title: EE500 - Network Performance
category: Masters
git: https://github.com/mLenehan1/EE500-NetworkPerformance
---

EE500 module introduces the students to advanced network performance concepts with focus on performance issues. 
<!-- more -->
The students will be reminded of the OSI and the TCP/IP models. They will be introduced to Quality of Service and Network Performance metrics as well as to Quality of Experience and Quality of Perception as metrics to assess the quality of data delivery. Various wired and wireless protocols will be introduced and their performance-related characteristics will, be discussed. These protocols will be presented at different layers of the OSI stack. At Datalink Layer WiFi (IEEE 802.11 family), WiMax (IEEE 802.16 family) and BlueTooth/UWB (IEEE 802.15) are briefly introduced before details are given about QoS-aware protocols or QoS solutions for IEEE 802.11e, IEEE 802.16e and IEEE 802.15.3, IEEE 802.15.4, UMTS. At network layer we will place emphasis on IPv4 vs IPv6, whereas at Transport Layer novel protocols such as DCCP, SCTP and others will be presented along with more established ones such as RTP and RTCP. At the Application Layer, multimedia and gaming applications will be discussed in details in the context of real-time content delivery, but other application types will also be presented. Adaptive and non-adaptive content delivery solutions will be presented along with significant issues such as end-user perceived quality. Novel performance-related issues such as mobility, power consumption and security will be presented..