---
layout: post
title: EE514 - Image Processing and Analysis
category: Masters
git: https://github.com/mLenehan1/EE453-ImageProcessingAndAnalysis
---

 Most people are familiar with the concept of processing an image to improve its quality or the use of image analysis software tools to make basic measurements; but what are the ideas behind such solutions and why is knowledge of these concepts important in developing successful computer vision applications? 
 <!-- more -->
 These modules will answer these questions by focusing on both the theoretical, mathematical and practical issues associated with a wide range of traditional computer vision solutions. Such solutions relate to the fields of image processing and analysis, industrial/machine vision, video data processing, biomedical engineering, imaging science, sensor technology, multimedia and enhanced reality systems. ee425 and ee453 will concentrate on developing the fundamentals necessary to design, develop and understand a wide range of basic imaging processing (image to image), image analysis (image to feature), image classification (feature to decision), performance characterisation (data to quantitative performance indicators) and computer vision (image to interpretation) solutions. All solutions have limitations and a key element of this module is to focus on how to approach the design, testing and evaluation of successful computer vision applications within an engineering framework. This module will make extensive use of an image analysis development environment to reinforce all the issues covers during the lectures. Please refer to the modules summary syllabus for additional detail.

In addition to the common elements associated with ee425, ee453 will contain more advanced (PLUS) image processing & analysis topics. The focus of this element of the module will be on developing practical engineering solutions. This module will require basic programming skills. We will develop solutions within Matlab development environment. Specifically we will use the VSG IPA toolbox (our free MATLAB compatible image processing and analysis toolbox) along with the Matlab Image Processing Toolbox. 